SETUP.md, before:

# Setup & Deployment (EduScrapeAppWeb)

This repository contains:
- **Frontend**: React + Vite + Tailwind (in `src/`)
- **Backend**: Convex functions + auth + AI assistant (in `convex/`)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (LTS recommended)
- npm
- Convex CLI access (via `npx convex ...`)

## 1) Install

```bash
npm install
```

## 2) Frontend environment variables (Vite)

Vite env vars must be prefixed with `VITE_`.

Create a local env file using the example (your preference: keep both `.env.local` and `.env.production` locally):

- Copy `.env.example` → `.env.local` (development)
- Copy `.env.example` → `.env.production` (production build)
- Set:
  - `VITE_CONVEX_URL=https://<your-deployment-name>.convex.cloud`

Where to find the URL:
- In the Convex dashboard for your project (Deployment URL)

## 3) Convex environment variables (server-side)

Set these in **Convex Dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables** or via CLI.

### 3.1 Auth providers (OAuth)

Required if you want Google/GitHub sign-in:

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `CONVEX_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | Google OAuth client ID |
| `CONVEX_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Google OAuth client secret |
| `CONVEX_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` | GitHub OAuth client ID |
| `CONVEX_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | GitHub OAuth client secret |
| `SITE_URL` | Deployed site URL (e.g. `https://your-app.vercel.app`) |

### 3.2 OpenRouter (AI Assistant)

Required for the chatbot action:

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | OpenRouter API key (keep secret; never commit) |

Optional (model overrides):

| Variable | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `OPENROUTER_TOOL_MODEL` | Tool-calling model | `mistralai/devstral-2512:free` |
| `OPENROUTER_WRITER_MODEL` | Writer model (final answer; no tools) | `meta-llama/llama-3.3-70b-instruct:free` |

CLI examples:

```bash
# Development
npx convex env set OPENROUTER_API_KEY "<your-key>"

# Production
npx convex env set OPENROUTER_API_KEY "<your-key>" --prod
```

## 4) Run locally

This project runs **frontend + backend in parallel**.

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Frontend: Vite will print the local URL in the terminal
- Backend: Convex runs via `convex dev`

## 5) Production build

```bash
npm run build
```

Optional local preview of the production build:

```bash
npm run preview
```

## 6) Deployment notes

### Vercel (frontend)

- Deploy the Vite app as a static build.
- Ensure `VITE_CONVEX_URL` is set in the Vercel project environment variables.
- Security headers can be set using either:
  - `vercel.json` (already present)
  - or the `_headers` reference file for other hosts

### Convex (backend)

- Deploy Convex functions from the project root:

```bash
npx convex deploy
```

- Ensure server-side env vars are set (especially `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`).

## 7) Troubleshooting

- **Blank page / Convex errors**: confirm `VITE_CONVEX_URL` points to the correct deployment.
- **Chatbot errors**: confirm `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` exists in Convex env vars (dev/prod).

## 3.3 ElevenLabs (Voice: TTS + Realtime STT)

ElevenLabs is integrated for:

- **Text-to-Speech (TTS)** via Convex HTTP route: `/eleven/tts`
- **Realtime Speech-to-Text (Scribe v2 Realtime)** via Convex HTTP route: `/eleven/scribe-token`

Set these in **Convex Dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables** (dev/prod):

- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` (keep secret)
- `ELEVENLABS_DEFAULT_VOICE_ID` (required for TTS)

Optional:

- `ELEVENLABS_TTS_MODEL_ID` (default: `eleven_flash_v2_5`)
- `ELEVENLABS_OUTPUT_FORMAT` (default: `mp3_44100_128`)

Frontend (Vite) toggles (safe to be `VITE_`):

- `VITE_TTS_PROVIDER=elevenlabs` (otherwise uses browser TTS)
- `VITE_STT_PROVIDER=elevenlabs` (otherwise uses browser SpeechRecognition)
- **Auth provider not showing**: confirm OAuth variables + `SITE_URL` are set correctly.

## Security checklist

- Keep `.env.local` and `.env.production` locally, but never commit them.
- The only env file intended to be committed is `.env.example`.
- Keep OpenRouter keys only in Convex env vars.

Commit message:

feat(auth): add support for CONVEX_SITE_URL with backwards compatibility
Update authentication configuration to prefer CONVEX_SITE_URL environment variable
while maintaining support for SITE_URL for backwards compatibility. This improves
consistency in environment variable naming and provides clearer error messages
in auth.config.ts and auth.ts. Documentation in SETUP.md has been updated to
reflect the preferred variable and notes on compatibility.

SETUP.md, after:

# Setup & Deployment (EduScrapeAppWeb)

This repository contains:
- **Frontend**: React + Vite + Tailwind (in `src/`)
- **Backend**: Convex functions + auth + AI assistant (in `convex/`)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (LTS recommended)
- npm
- Convex CLI access (via `npx convex ...`)

## 1) Install

```bash
npm install
```

## 2) Frontend environment variables (Vite)

Vite env vars must be prefixed with `VITE_`.

Create a local env file using the example (your preference: keep both `.env.local` and `.env.production` locally):

- Copy `.env.example` → `.env.local` (development)
- Copy `.env.example` → `.env.production` (production build)
- Set:
  - `VITE_CONVEX_URL=https://<your-deployment-name>.convex.cloud`

Where to find the URL:
- In the Convex dashboard for your project (Deployment URL)

## 3) Convex environment variables (server-side)

Set these in **Convex Dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables** or via CLI.

### 3.1 Auth providers (OAuth)

Required if you want Google/GitHub sign-in:

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `CONVEX_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | Google OAuth client ID |
| `CONVEX_GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Google OAuth client secret |
| `CONVEX_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` | GitHub OAuth client ID |
| `CONVEX_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | GitHub OAuth client secret |
| `CONVEX_SITE_URL` | Deployed site URL (e.g. `https://your-app.vercel.app`) |

Notes:
- `CONVEX_SITE_URL` is preferred.
- `SITE_URL` is also accepted for backwards compatibility.

### 3.2 OpenRouter (AI Assistant)

Required for the chatbot action:

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | OpenRouter API key (keep secret; never commit) |

Optional (model overrides):

| Variable | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `OPENROUTER_TOOL_MODEL` | Tool-calling model | `mistralai/devstral-2512:free` |
| `OPENROUTER_WRITER_MODEL` | Writer model (final answer; no tools) | `meta-llama/llama-3.3-70b-instruct:free` |

CLI examples:

```bash
# Development
npx convex env set OPENROUTER_API_KEY "<your-key>"

# Production
npx convex env set OPENROUTER_API_KEY "<your-key>" --prod
```

## 4) Run locally

This project runs **frontend + backend in parallel**.

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Frontend: Vite will print the local URL in the terminal
- Backend: Convex runs via `convex dev`

## 5) Production build

```bash
npm run build
```

Optional local preview of the production build:

```bash
npm run preview
```

## 6) Deployment notes

### Vercel (frontend)

- Deploy the Vite app as a static build.
- Ensure `VITE_CONVEX_URL` is set in the Vercel project environment variables.
- Security headers can be set using either:
  - `vercel.json` (already present)
  - or the `_headers` reference file for other hosts

### Convex (backend)

- Deploy Convex functions from the project root:

```bash
npx convex deploy
```

- Ensure server-side env vars are set (especially `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`).

## 7) Troubleshooting

- **Blank page / Convex errors**: confirm `VITE_CONVEX_URL` points to the correct deployment.
- **Chatbot errors**: confirm `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` exists in Convex env vars (dev/prod).

## 3.3 ElevenLabs (Voice: TTS + Realtime STT)

ElevenLabs is integrated for:

- **Text-to-Speech (TTS)** via Convex HTTP route: `/eleven/tts`
- **Realtime Speech-to-Text (Scribe v2 Realtime)** via Convex HTTP route: `/eleven/scribe-token`

Set these in **Convex Dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables** (dev/prod):

- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` (keep secret)
- `ELEVENLABS_DEFAULT_VOICE_ID` (required for TTS)

Optional:

- `ELEVENLABS_TTS_MODEL_ID` (default: `eleven_flash_v2_5`)
- `ELEVENLABS_OUTPUT_FORMAT` (default: `mp3_44100_128`)

Frontend (Vite) toggles (safe to be `VITE_`):

- `VITE_TTS_PROVIDER=elevenlabs` (otherwise uses browser TTS)
- `VITE_STT_PROVIDER=elevenlabs` (otherwise uses browser SpeechRecognition)
- **Auth provider not showing**: confirm OAuth variables + `SITE_URL` are set correctly.

## Security checklist

- Keep `.env.local` and `.env.production` locally, but never commit them.
- The only env file intended to be committed is `.env.example`.
- Keep OpenRouter keys only in Convex env vars.
